---
lang: en
layout: page
tid: flip-books
title: Introduction to the Com&eacute;die-Fran&ccedil;aise Register Facsimiles
---
The Com&eacute;die-Fran&ccedil;aise Registers Project (CFRP) database is comprised of data extracted from the daily box office receipt registers of the Com&eacute;die-Fran&ccedil;aise theater troupe from 1680 to 1793. In addition to the database and the data analysis tools provided on this site, we also make available high resolution digital facsimiles of the original seventeenth and eighteenth-century folio registers, which are conserved at the [Biblioth&egrave;que-Mus&eacute;e de la Com&eacute;die-Fran&ccedil;aise](http://www.comedie-francaise.fr/la-comedie-francaise-aujourdhui.php?id=507), located in the Palais Royal in the heart of Paris. Links to each season&rsquo;s receipt register can be found below, with the exception of the 1739-1740 season; this register disappeared long ago from the troupe&rsquo;s archives. Some of the data analysis tools also allow users to link to individual register facsimile pages.

In addition to the receipt registers, users will find links below to other Com&eacute;die-Fran&ccedil;aise registers that contain daily expenditure information, and lists of the troupe&rsquo;s actors who performed each night. The expenditure and casting registers are not as extensive as the receipt registers, in part because in some seasons the troupe recorded expenditure and casting information in the receipt registers. For those seasons, users should search the corresponding receipt registers for the missing data, although there are some years for which neither expenditure nor casting data is available. In the future, we may add the expenditure and casting data to the receipts database currently accessible online.

Finally, we provide links to high resolution digital facsimiles of selected administrative registers maintained by the troupe from 1680 to 1793. These registers record the proceedings of the troupe&rsquo;s administrative committee, and other records of official deliberations and exchanges with the royal government. Users intrigued by this material may wish to visit the Biblioth&egrave;que-Mus&eacute;e de la Com&eacute;die-Fran&ccedil;aise to see what other relevant materials are available in the troupe&rsquo;s archive.